<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [afova][1]
-   [Usage][2]
-   [init][3]
    -   [Parameters][4]
-   [injectMessage][5]
    -   [Parameters][6]
-   [clearMessage][7]
    -   [Parameters][8]
-   [getMessage][9]
    -   [Parameters][10]
-   [getMessageTypes][11]

## afova

Accessible Form Validation (afova)

afova is leveraging the Constraint Validation API to do client-side form validation. Please refer to:

-   [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Constraint_validation][12]
-   [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Constraint_validation][13]

## Usage

Put the script afova.min.js into your HTML page head:

```html
<head>
…
<script defer src="/js/afova.min.js"</script>
…
</head>
```

Initialize afova

```html
<script>
addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => afova.init());;
</script>
```

afova offers the following methods:

## init

Initialize afova. Sample call:

```js
afova.init({focusOnFirstError: true, validateOnChange: false});
```

The script will iterate through all forms on a web page and deactivate browser validation 
in favor of afova. The form validation will occur on submit of a form and on change of a field.
All errors that can be checked with the Constraint Validation API are validated by afova. 
If the default error messages from afova shouldn´t be used, custom error messages 
can be defined as `data` attributes for each field. For example:

```html
<div class="afova-group">
    <label for="custom-pattern-input">A pattern input with custom failure message</label>
    <div>Please provide a string that contains any mix of A-Z or a-z and has a length of 3 charactes.</div>
    <input id="custom-pattern-input" type="text" 
    pattern="[A-Za-z]{3}" 
    data-pattern-mismatch="The value is not in the correct format. Correct formats are AbC or xyz for example.">
 </div>
```

The following attributes are available to define validation error messages:

<dl>
<dt>data-bad-input</dt>
<dd>The browser is unable to handle the input value</dd>

<dt>data-pattern-mismatch</dt>
<dd>The value of a field doesn´t comply to the pattern of the <code>pattern</code> attribute</dd>

<dt>data-range-overflow</dt>
<dd>The value of a field is bigger than the value of the <code>max</code> attribute</dd>

<dt>data-range-underflow</dt>
<dd>The value of a field is smaller than the value of the <code>min</code> attribute</dd>

<dt>data-step-mismatch</dt>
<dd>The value of field is not evenly divisable by the value of the <code>step</code> attribute</dd>

<dt>data-too-long</dt>
<dd>The value of a field has more characters than defined by the attribute <code>maxlength</code></dd>

<dt>data-too-short</dt>
<dd>The value of a field has less characters than defined by the attribute <code>minlength</code></dd>

<dt>data-type-mismatch</dt>
<dd>The value of a field dosn´t comply to the type of the <code>type</code> attribute</dd>

<dt>data-value-missing</dd>
<dd>A value of a field that is required due to the <code>required</code> attribute is missing</dd>
</dl>

Messages that can be derived from the HTML data attributes, like above, will have the CSS class `derived` assigned to them.

### Parameters

-   `options` **[Object][14]?** The settings for afova (optional, default `{focusOnFirstError:true,validateOnChange:false}`)
    -   `options.focusOnFirstError` **[boolean][15]?** If true, the first errored field will be focused. If false, the first errored field will not receive focus.
    -   `options.validateOnChange` **[boolean][15]?** If true, each field will be validate on its change without waiting for a form submit. If false the validation will only occurr on submit of the form.

## injectMessage

Inject a message and bind it to a form element. Injected messages will have the CSS class `injected` assigned to them.
Typically it shouldn´t be necessary to inject a message for anything that can be solved with the derived messages (see the init() method above).
Sample call:

```js
afova.injectMessage('requiredInput', 'You provided a value but the value is not correct'); 
```

### Parameters

-   `identifier` **([Element][16] \| [string][17])** Identify the form element for which the error message should be set. If the parameter is a string, it will be interpreted as the id of the form element.
-   `message` **[string][17]** The message to set.
-   `options` **[Object][14]**  (optional, default `{messageId:undefined,focus:false}`)
    -   `options.messageId` **[string][17]?** The id for the message. If this id is not provided, a new id will be generated.
    -   `options.focus` **[boolean][15]?** If true the focus will be set to the field.

Returns **[string][17]** The id of the injected message and undefined if no message was set.

## clearMessage

Remove all injected messages that are linked to a form element, or remove a message that is identified by its id.
Sample call:

```js
afova.clearMessage('requiredInput check3');
//will clear all injected messages for the form elements that have the id´s requiredInput and check3

afova.clearMessage('requiredInput', 'check3');
//this call is equivalent to the previous one
```

### Parameters

-   `identifier` **...([Element][16] \| [string][17])** <ul><li>If identifier is a form element, all injected error messages of that form element will be removed.</li>
    <li>If identifier is a string that contains the id of a form element, all injected error messages of that form element will be removed.</li>
    <li>If identifier is a string that contains the id of a message, that message will be removed.</li>
    <li>If identifier is a string that contains a list of id´s, separated by space or comma, messages will be cleared for those id´s by applying the same rules as for a single id</li>
    <li>You might also provide a comma-separated list of identifiers (spread/rest operator ...)</li>
    </ul>

## getMessage

### Parameters

-   `messageType` **[string][17]** Describes the messageType to get a message for. For allowed values @see [getMessageTypes][11].
-   `identifier` **([Element][16] \| [string][17])** Identify the form element for which the error message should be determined. If the parameter is a string, it will be interpreted as the id of the form element. If the identifier is not provided, the default message for the given messageType will be returned. (optional, default `undefined`)

Returns **any** The message text for the given message type. If identifier refers to a field, the actual message of the field for the given messageType is returned.

## getMessageTypes

Returns **any** An array of all supported message types.

[1]: #afova

[2]: #usage

[3]: #init

[4]: #parameters

[5]: #injectmessage

[6]: #parameters-1

[7]: #clearmessage

[8]: #parameters-2

[9]: #getmessage

[10]: #parameters-3

[11]: #getmessagetypes

[12]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Constraint_validation

[13]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/Constraint_validation

[14]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[15]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[16]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Element

[17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String
